>> Scott Moss: As far as some of the most
used cases that I wanted to cover when
it comes to headless CMS with Next.js,
we covered them.
There's a lot more for
us to do just going through this page, but
they're mostly the same.
We talked about iterating over lists,
we talked about relational types and
how to query those things,
everything's kind of mostly the same.
What really starts to change is just,
and this is why it was really hard for
you to create notes for this course.
It's like, it's how you think about it and
how your relationship is with the people
in your team that are gonna
be adding to the content.
Because there's nothing stopping
you from putting every single
thing you see as far as like text,
assets, even layout positioning,
and even things like color
inside of headless CMS.
But at that point, you're basically
building a website builder from forms.
So, that's not the best interface.
If someone said, hey,
you can build this website
by using forms or not like,
[LAUGH] what's on?
What wrong would you do?
You probably say not.
So, it's like this tug and
pull situation, so
you start to see people doing
some of those on-site things.
So what I wanna talk about now is just
kind of take a tour through some of
the other CMSs out there,
and how they do some different features
that I think you might find useful.
So that way,
if you're gonna go forward from this and
pick a CMS to try to figure
out what you wanna work on,
at least you've heard some of my
opinions if you find them valuable.
Because, I mean, I'm pretty, I'm not as
deep in this space, I was since I'm not
working on how to CMS, but I usually I do
stay up to date on a lot of the things.
So the one that I do wanna
dive into is Builder.io,
I think I talked a little
bit about it before.
But this one's pretty cool, this one,
so I talked about open source,
I talked about closed source.
This one is closed source, but
it's like it sits somewhere in the middle
between just a website builder.
To me, I think of it as a headless website
builder, because you can actually use
a headless CMS with it, even though it
does also have a headless CMS component.
It's everything, which can be good or bad.
But it's pretty cool.
This one, basically, you see,
they have a graphic that I wanted to show,
let me see if they have it.
It's not on this page.
Yeah, I'm being AB tested.
But they have a graphic where it kinda
shows you like kinda where it sits,
but as you can see in
this demo right here,
you can pull up on your site just
like this in this app that they have.
You can look at everything from
heat maps that they showed you,
to editing inventory,
to getting down to the code.
It's pretty complex.
And I think it's gonna be for
those people who,
it's basically like building your own web
flow, it's the best way I can describe t.
So if you wanna build your own web flow,
go use Builder, that's what it is.
so to me, that's kinda like a technically
inclined design person, I guess.
So it's a different market, but
this is what pushing that limit of we
don't wanna edit on the form to,
this is where it goes.
So that's Builder, they also do a lot of
AI stuff, and they move really quickly.
I know the Builder team there,
Mishko, the guy who created Angler,
is the CTO there now.
And they're just a very, very strong team,
I respect a lot of stuff that they do.
And what they're doing with the AI,
I haven't tried it out yet, but
what I can say is that
they move really fast.
And it's probably worth a try,
at least just to see what's possible.
So Builder is really cool.
Another one that you might wanna
check out is called Prismic.
Only reason I'm bringing this one up
is cuz I've used it in the past and
I thought it was quite simple, but
they have this interesting concept called,
let me see if I can show you.
It's called a Slice Machine.
So, a Slice Machine,
let me see if I can get this right.
A Slice Machine is basically like taking
a section of your website, it's basically
like, you have components on your app, now
you have components and content as well.
They match one for one.
So it's like, I have like,
if we go back to our website,
if we go back here,
you can think of a Slice is like
this thing, this might be a Slice.
This might be a Slice, this whole bento
box UI in the subtitle is a Slice.
So you can make these slices, and that
way, the people who are designing content
can drag and drop and pick the slices and
do whatever they want.
And because they're bound to some
component that has a visual output,
they can show them that in a preview much,
much better.
You can even take a screenshot of it,
so they can see a screenshot
of what it would look like.
In Prismic, they used to have a hosted
editor, kind of like what Contentful has,
that is now called their legacy editor.
And the only reason I know that,
cuz I was gonna use this for the course,
I was like, I think Prismic is
like the most simplest, basic,
headless CMS out there,
which is great for this course.
But then I realized like, no,
you gotta download a thing now, and
you gotta do all these things now.
And it's like sanity now.
So, check it out,
it's kinda cool, I guess.
I haven't tried it out, but it looks cool.
So, you got that,
I talked about sanity already, so
I'm not gonna talk too much more about it.
Here is a Storyblock,
yeah, Storyblock, okay.
I can't remember if they
were still around or not.
So, Storyblock is kind of cool,
I think they were one of the first
visual headless CMS builders out there.
They were definitely
one of the first ones.
I know that because they came to market
after my product came to market,
I remember them coming to market and
they were like, yeah,
we're gonna do this visual thing.
And I was like,
I don't know if that's the way, and
that's because we were still thinking
we were selling to developers.
And I'm like,
developers don't want a visual editor,
they just wanna fill out forms and
use the API.
But the people who
are creating the content and
experiencing the content need this,
this kinda helps them.
So, can't tell if it's good or bad,
I can just tell you that they did it for
a while, seems useful,
you can check it out.
But yeah, that one's really good.
And then I would say,
this one is less of a CMS and
more of a competitor web flow for sure.
But if you haven't checked out Framer
in a while, Framer is no longer
just an animation library,
it is now a full blown website builder.
And honestly, it's quite impressive.
It's probably the only website
builder that I've used, I'm like,
all right, I'm still never gonna use this,
but [LAUGH] I was really impressed.
Like, the code that it outputs and how it
does it, and the fact that you can go in
and edit things really simple,
the app works really good.
But the biggest feature is that, I can
go get a Figma design right now, give it
to Framer, and then within two seconds
it's a website, I'll just click Publish.
So I can publish a Figma design and
it turns it into a website immediately,
which is to me, is really impressive.
So, it's really cool, they have
this really cool, where is it at?
Templates, where are their templates?
I know they have some.
>> Scott Moss: Let's see.
Framer, literally, okay,
why would they not be on their website?
That's crazy.
They have a lot of them,
they got some really cool looking website,
a lot of designers make a living
off selling Framer templates.
This one looks absolutely insane.
What, who made this?
>> Scott Moss: I don't know.
This one's really good, though.
It's really great for people who do React,
cuz it's all React-based,
the output of it.
There's a desktop app, it works in
the web, it's basically like Figma.
If Figma allows you to make a website,
that's Framer,
that's the best way I can describe it.
It's pretty cool.
Whereas Webflow is geared
towards more designers,
Framer is geared towards engineers
who don't know how to design.
>> Scott Moss: And there are a lot of
other ones out there for sure, but
I think those are the only ones that
I think, off the top of my head,
that I can think of that
you might wanna check out.
And then from there,
when we talk about production,
since we didn't really get to that because
it really isn't that much different other
than the cash revalidating
that I talked about.
You just need to make sure a lot of these
CMSs have different URLs that they use in
production than they do, not production.
So make sure you use the right URLs.
And then,
you should try to avoid having to
rebuild your app when something changes.
So take advantage of web plugs,
take advantage of revalidating,
take advantage of all those things so
you're not rebuilding your site.
like, this isn't 2016 gas feed anymore,
so you don't need to do that.
Hopefully you're not doing that.
And then the other thing I get
a question about with headless CMS is,
can I use headless CMS
outside of a static site?
Can I use it on a mobile app?
Can I use it behind a login,
like on the dashboard?
Sure, you can use
the headless CMS anywhere.
A headless CMS is
basically a repository for
data that your colleagues create, right?
It's still data, right?
When we think of data, we think of
the data that a user creates, but
what about the data
that your team creates?
That's what a headless CMS is for, so you
have a lot of data that your team creates,
and if it belongs on the screen
in one of your apps,
then you might feel free
to use the headless CMS.
So yes, you can totally use it.
There's been cases where
we've done that before,
where we'll put things in the headless CMS
that get rendered somewhere in the app.
And those might be the text that might
show up on a own boarding flow cuz maybe
we want someone who's not technical
to manage that onboarding flow and
what it says.
So that's a great use case.
It might be like, if you show a modal
that pops up when someone signs up for
the first time and it greets them,
maybe that's something you
wanna put in the headless CMS.
So that can be changed by
someone who's not technical.
So there's things like that where there's
a lot of crossover that you might
wanna do that.
On the mobile app, kind of the same thing,
there's different scenarios where
maybe you wanna change some things.
I've actually used the headless CMS to
change the layout of a mobile app, so
I didn't have to go to the app store.
And I didn't feel like setting up
a backend, so I just use a headless CMS.
That was really cool, so
you can do stuff like that.
So it isn't just for
putting text on a website,
there's a lot of different use cases for
this.
And then now the fact that everything,
you can get an LLM with just an API call,
an LLM is basically something
that can take unstructured data,
like output of a rich text, take
something like that and make sense of it.
You might even find it useful to hit
the API for a headless CMS server side and
do some type of analysis
there as well using the LLM.
So I bet there's tons of different use
cases there that people are still gonna
figure out in the future.
So it's not just putting text on a screen,
that's just where all the money is.
That's the biggest need.
But if you already have one and
you're using one,
you're not limited to just that,
you can pretty much do whatever you want.
So, think a little bit
outside the box there.